.\" Manpage for GentMaint.
.\" Contact AstroFloyd at astrofloyd.org to correct errors or typos.
.TH "GentMaint" 1 "Sun June 4 2023" "GentMaint"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
GentMaint \- bash scripts to aid the maintenance of a Gentoo Linux system

.SH DESCRIPTION

GentMaint is a collection of bash scripts to aid the maintenance of a 
Gentoo Linux system. You should give them a good look before actually using 
them, and you're strongly discouraged from using them as cron jobs, even though 
that's what I designed and use (some of) them for ;-). They can be used under the 
conditions of version 3 of the GPL.  To download the GentMaint package, read the 
code documentation, or to contact the developer, see: 
\fBhttp://gentmaint.sourceforge.net\fP\&.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgentmaint_<command>\fP [\fI<options>\fP]

Any options are passed to the \fIemerge\fP command if applicable.

.PP
.SS "Commands"
.br

.RI "\fBgentmaint-check-configure-options\fP  Check the configuration options of an unpacked package."

.RI "\fBgentmaint-check-deps\fP  Check the dependencies of an installed package."

.RI "\fBgentmaint-clean\fP  Clean the Gentoo system by removing old tarballs, compressing log file and cleaning /var/tmp/portage/."

.RI "\fBgentmaint-consistent\fP  Check the Gentoo system for consistency, and uninstall obsolete dependencies."

.RI "\fBgentmaint-help\fP  Produce this list of commands."

.RI "\fBgentmaint-image-tree\fP  Show the image-directory tree of a package to be installed (after building)."

.RI "\fBgentmaint-lastlog\fP  Display the log of the last World update."

.RI "\fBgentmaint-log\fP  Run dispatch-conf and list recent updates."

.RI "\fBgentmaint-mark-revdep-rebuild-done\fP \fI<logfile(s)>\fP  In the specified GentMaint log file(s), add \fI'  --  Done'\fP to the end of lines matching \fIrevdep-rebuild --library\fP, so that they will no longer be displayed by \fBgentmaint-log\fP."

.RI "\fBgentmaint-messages\fP  Display package messages from an emerge log file."

.RI "\fBgentmaint-sync\fP  Sync the Gentoo portage system."

.RI "\fBgentmaint-sync-cron\fP  Run gentmaint-sync as a cron job and save the output to /var/log/gentmaint/sync.log."

.RI "\fBgentmaint-update\fP  Sync and update the Gentoo system.  This script expects no interactive user feedback by default.  Use emerge option \fI-a\fP to change that, or \fI-p\fP to pretend."

.RI "\fBgentmaint-update-cron\fP  Run gentmaint-update as a cron job.  You should be \fIvery\fP careful when doing this and spend some time investigating the logs afterwards."

.RI "\fBgentmaint-version\fP  Print package/version info."

.RI "\fBgentmaint-worldupdate1-4\fP  Update the Gentoo World system, but don't sync.  1-4 use an increasing number of dependencies, where 4 does a full update, but 1-3 may converge on a package list where 2-4 may not."


.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
GentMaint was written by AstroFloyd (\fBhttp://astrofloyd.org\fP)\&.
